All right here's problem 23.
It's the same surgery as before so rather than kind of redoing everything.
I'm just going to remember that I have two amps kind of flowing over here two amps.
OK.
So now they want to know what is the potential difference across the tool resistor.
Well let's imagine now if you connected a volt meter right across here what would be the measurement
that's simply given by Ohm's law you know the value of the resistance is to voltage across any resistor
is the value of the resistance multiplied by how much current is flowing through it.
In this case it's 2 ohms multiplied by two amps.
You should measure four volts.
Correct answer is C doesn't it any easier than that our problem 24.
What is the power dissipated appear through this resistor much power is dissipated.
So power dissipated that you need to know the voltage across that resistor and you need to know how
much current.
We don't know any of those.
Right.
What else we can rewrite this equation is our eyes squared.
Well that's pretty good.
If we knew the current flowing through this resistor we know the value of r is 6 we can calculate how
much power is being dissipated.
So how do we get the current.
Well a lot of different ways to do that.
Again it's the same circuit as the previous two problems so we've already found that we have two amps
kind of going into the junction and that's not necessarily to going up here right cause some of that
current is going to be split.
So what we're going to do here is I'm going to call the current over here I want and I'm going to call
the current in the bottom branch too.
And we know there's two amps going in that's going to be the current is two going in.
OK.
So the junction rule up there simply says that two must be equal to I one plus i'd two.
All right I need something else.
I don't have enough information yet.
Now the other thing I know is that whatever the voltage is across this branch has to be the same voltage
across that branch because they are in parallel with each other.
So the voltage across the six ohm resistor is six multiplied by one.
That must be equal to 12 multiplied by two.
All right.
Now we have two equations in two unknowns.
What we can do here is simplify.
You can write that to simply going to be one half of one.
Now go ahead and substitute that into this equation.
When you're left with two equals to I one plus one half of 1.
You can sum both of those three halfs.
All right.
It's at the end we're left with the current I want that's the current flowing through the 6 ohm resistor.
Bring the two over here of the four divided by three four thirds.
Now what I've done we want to know the power.
So let's go back to our power equation.
Just kind of do it over here.
So the power dissipated in there is this there is the value of the resistance which is six multiplied
by the current flowing through it which is four thirds.
All right.
So at the end we're left with six multiplied by 16 divided by nine.
I'm not going to try to do that in my head.
You substitute that in your calculator you should get ten point seven watts correct answer for this
one choice.
A few extra steps here because we needed to find what the current was flowing through the 6 ohm resistor.